# Playground for Designers

Set of pages that can be used by designers to work on design. Most of these pages are more like stubs and do not contains full functionality of the search application, they can contain just static HTML and CSS but no JavaScript functionality.

## Work Flows

There are basically two possible ways how to contribute to search web UI design.

- Make fork to your git repo, do _your thing_ and then send pull requests.
- Clone the `master` branch and push changes directly to it (providing you can write access). The advantage of this approach is that automatic build will be started shortly after change push and once it is finished you could verify how the changes play out in live application. On the other hand it might require changes in some JS code as well. More on this below...
- You have write access to the repo but do not feel like pushing directly into `master` then you can create a new branch (for example called `design`) and push your changes into it. Someone (for example @lukas-vlcek) can review it later and take care of merging it with `master` for you.

Generally, [css files][css_files] can be changes directly, however, if the change requires update of HTML (e.g. add new element, class, id, …) then keep in mind that most of the HTML is generated dynamically thus appropriate change in code is needed. In majority of the cases the HTML is generated by one of [soy templates][soy_templates], remember that once the template file is changed it needs to be compiled by [`compileClosureTemplates.sh`][compileClosureTemplates.sh] script and resulting `js` scripts (which are automatically located in [`src/main/javascript_sources/generated_templates`][generated_templates] folder) need to be pushed into GitHub repo to make sure they are propagated into our Jenkins CI build.

#### Quick Branching Tutorial

Quick (but not complete!) tutorial on branching. This is just the most basic workflow:

```sh
# clone into local folder
clone git@github.com:jbossorg/search-web-ui.git
cd search-web-ui

# create a new branch localy and switch to the new branch
git checkout -b design

# do your thing and do new commits
# when done you push into origin repo (this creates a new branch in remote repo)
git push origin design

# you can use the following command to list local branches
git branch

# when the design branch already exists on the remote repo, you should first pull form it and the push:
git pull origin design
git push origin design

```

[css_files]: ../css
[soy_templates]: ../../../main/soy_templates
[compileClosureTemplates.sh]: ../../../../compileClosureTemplates.sh
[generated_templates]: ../../javascript_source/generated_templates

## Available Stubs

### Search Results

Found at [search_results/index.html](./search_results/index.html).

It contains stub of the main `index.html` page with basic structure of the main HTML elements, specifically the top menu with logo, search field and filter buttons.

Then it contains element with search results and pagination. Normally, the page with search results contains ten individual results (if there are enough results available). In this stub there are only three items.

Note that the stub `index.html` contains links to all CSS files but many of them are commented out. This is because they do not contribute to any of the visible elements on the stub but I decided not to delete them in case you feel like exploring them as well.

This stub should be used to tune design of **search results** (or try experimenting with them). It is not much useful for tuning of the top part of the screen (search field and filter button). It can be, however, used for **logo design** experiments.
